I wanted to shed some light on a little
issue that a lot of web designers
have had and currently have.
In fact,
I've had this issue in the past as well.
It's regarding the outline style
when a link is focused or a button.
So, if you're using Twitter bootstrap for
example, you will notice when you click
on the button, and maybe hover away or
navigate away, or whatever it
is you do to achieve this style,
the little blue outline kind of
hovers around the link or the button.
And visually, it kind of looks
a little off, it looks a bit weird.
And so, naturally, web designers,
if they have a good eye for design,
they think, how do I remove this?
And they go ahead and google,
and come across a couple forums on
how to remove the outline style.
And it's pretty easy,
you just define the style,
redefine the outline style to zero or
none, and
put the important pseudo-class
at the end of it.
But the reality of it is,
you shouldn't remove this style at all.
In fact,
it's a terrible idea to remove this style.
It's bad practice.
And the reason why is,
the purpose of the outline
being on a link or a button, is visual
feedback to those who have to use
a keyboard to navigate your website.
So, people with visual impairment or maybe
some other sort of disability that doesn't
allow them to let them use
a mouse as easy as you and I can.
So, you have to leave it there.
And maybe, what you can do instead
is you can update the style.
You can change the style.
You can provide better visual feedback,
other than just an ugly blue outline.
You can make it look better.
You can change the color of the button.
You can give a better outline.
You can do something that matches
the brand of your website or
your company,
better than just the generic blue outline.
So, instead of removing it,
think about it, and
think about the people who need to
be able to access your website.
You don't wanna discriminate against them.
So, just do something better.
This gives you a good opportunity
to exercise your design chops,
and think about usability.
A really good resource for
you to check out is outlinenone.com.
And you'll see a huge
header at the very top.
It says, don't do it.
So, think about that next time you go to
redefine those outline styles to zero.
[MUSIC]